Add Uniswap V2 tutorial to SC tutorials (#541)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: tutorials/smart-contracts/demo-aplications/deploying-uniswap-v2.md

---
title: Deploying Uniswap V2

> description: Learn how to write a basic smart contract using just a text editor. This guide covers creating and preparing a contract for deployment on Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer: This meta description needs to be updated, please

Author: fixed in [f398f87](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/541/commits/f398f87d00f047a4e0b884238f21c68d3e60eaae)

---

# Deploying Uniswap V2

## Introduction

> Decentralized exchanges (DEXs) are a cornerstone of the DeFi ecosystem, allowing for permissionless token swaps without intermediaries. [Uniswap V2](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v2/overview){target=\_blank}, with its Automated Market Maker (AMM) model, revolutionized DEXs by enabling liquidity provision for any ERC-20 token pair. This tutorial will guide you through how Uniswap V2 works, so you can take advantage of it in your projects deployed to the Polkadot Hub. By understanding these contracts, you'll gain hands-on experience with one of the most influential DeFi protocols and understand how it functions across blockchain ecosystems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized exchanges (DEXs) are a cornerstone of the DeFi ecosystem, allowing for permissionless token swaps without intermediaries. [Uniswap V2](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v2/overview){target=\_blank}, with its Automated Market Maker (AMM) model, revolutionized DEXs by enabling liquidity provision for any ERC-20 token pair.

This tutorial will guide you through how Uniswap V2 works so you can take advantage of it in your projects deployed to Polkadot Hub. By understanding these contracts, you'll gain hands-on experience with one of the most influential DeFi protocols and understand how it functions across blockchain ecosystems.
```

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:

- Node.js (v16.0.0 or later) and npm installed
- Basic understanding of Solidity and JavaScript
- Familiarity with [`hardhat-polkadot`](/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat){target=\_blank} development environment
- Some WND test tokens to cover transaction fees (obtained from the [Polkadot faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend){target=\_blank})
- Basic understanding of how AMMs and liquidity pools work

> ## Setting Up the Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up the Project
```

Let's start by cloning the Uniswap V2 project:

1. Clone the Uniswap V2 repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/papermoonio/uniswap-V2-polkadot.git
    cd uniswap-V2-polkadot
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

> 3. Update the `hardhat.config.js` file so the paths for the substrate node and the eth-rpc adapter match with the paths on your machine. For more info, check the [Testing your Contract](/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/#testing-your-contract){target=\_blank} section in the hardhat guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Update the `hardhat.config.js` file so the paths for the substrate node and the ETH-RPC adapter match with the paths on your machine. For more info, check the [Testing your Contract](/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/#testing-your-contract){target=\_blank} section in the Hardhat guide
```

    ```js title="hardhat.config.js"
    hardhat: {
        polkavm: true,
        nodeConfig: {
            nodeBinaryPath: "../bin/substrate-node",
            rpcPort: 8000,
            dev: true,
        },
        adapterConfig: {
            adapterBinaryPath: "../bin/eth-rpc",
            dev: true,
        },

>     },

Reviewer: This is 4 spaces, should be 2, should also use single quotes

    ```

>     Ensure that the paths for `nodeBinaryPath` and `adapterBinaryPath` point to the correct locations of your substrate node and eth-rpc adapter binaries.

Reviewer: This just duplicates what is already said in the text before the snippet. Seems unnecessary to me

Author: fixed in [98c004a](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/541/commits/98c004a427cd66ca6581868f8f6202136bce0971)

4. Create a `.env` file in your project root to store your private keys (you can use as an example the `env.example` file):

    ```text title=".env"
    LOCAL_PRIV_KEY="INSERT_LOCAL_PRIVATE_KEY"
    AH_PRIV_KEY="INSERT_AH_PRIVATE_KEY"
    ```

>     Ensure to replace "INSERT_LOCAL_PRIVATE_KEY" with a private key available in the local environment (you can get them from this [file](https://github.com/paritytech/hardhat-polkadot/blob/main/packages/hardhat-polkadot-node/src/constants.ts#L22){target=\_blank}). And "INSERT_AH_PRIVATE_KEY" with the private key of the account you want to use for deploying the contracts. You can get this by exporting the private key from your wallet (e.g., MetaMask).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Ensure to replace `"INSERT_LOCAL_PRIVATE_KEY"` with a private key available in the local environment (you can get them from this [file](https://github.com/paritytech/hardhat-polkadot/blob/main/packages/hardhat-polkadot-node/src/constants.ts#L22){target=\_blank}). And `"INSERT_AH_PRIVATE_KEY"` with the account's private key you want to use to deploy the contracts. You can get this by exporting the private key from your wallet (e.g., MetaMask).
```

    !!!warning
        Keep your private key safe, and never share it with anyone. If it is compromised, your funds can be stolen.

5. Compile the contracts:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat compile
    ```

If the compilation is successful, you should see the following output:

--8<-- "code/tutorials/smart-contracts/demo-aplications/deploying-uniswap-V2/compilation-output.html"

After running the above command, you should see the compiled contracts in the `artifacts-pvm` directory. This directory contains the ABI and bytecode of your contracts.

## Understanding Uniswap V2 Architecture

> Before interacting with the contracts, it's essential to understand the core architecture that powers Uniswap V2. This model forms the basis of nearly every modern DEX implementation and operates under the principles of automated market making, token pair liquidity pools, and deterministic pricing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before interacting with the contracts, it's essential to understand the core architecture that powers Uniswap V2. This model forms the basis of nearly every modern DEX implementation and operates under automated market making, token pair liquidity pools, and deterministic pricing principles.
```

> At the heart of Uniswap V2 lies a simple but powerful system composed of three major smart contracts:

Author: fixed in [2b0f3c0](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/541/commits/2b0f3c0a4a7a12cf04b784061eb8f98c3b1e7c24)

- **Factory Contract** - the factory acts as a registry and creator of new trading pairs. When two ERC-20 tokens are to be traded, the Factory contract is responsible for generating a new Pair contract that will manage that specific token pair’s liquidity pool. It keeps track of all deployed pairs and ensures uniqueness—no duplicate pools can exist for the same token combination
- **Pair Contract** - each pair contract is a decentralized liquidity pool that holds reserves of two ERC-20 tokens. These contracts implement the core logic of the AMM, maintaining a constant product invariant (x \* y = k) to facilitate swaps and price determination. Users can contribute tokens to these pools in return for LP (liquidity provider) tokens, which represent their proportional share of the reserves

> This minimal architecture enables Uniswap to be highly modular, trustless, and extensible. By distributing responsibilities across these components, developers and users can engage with the protocol in a composable and predictable manner, making it an ideal foundation for DEX functionality across ecosystems, including Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This minimal architecture enables Uniswap to be highly modular, trustless, and extensible. By distributing responsibilities across these components, developers, and users can engage with the protocol in a composable and predictable manner, making it an ideal foundation for DEX functionality across ecosystems, including Polkadot Hub.
```

The project scaffolding is as follows:

```bash
uniswap-V2-polkadot
├── bin/
├── contracts/
│   ├── interfaces/
│   │   ├── IERC20.sol
│   │   ├── IUniswapV2Callee.sol
│   │   ├── IUniswapV2ERC20.sol
│   │   ├── IUniswapV2Factory.sol
│   │   └── IUniswapV2Pair.sol
│   ├── libraries/
│   │   ├── Math.sol
│   │   ├── SafeMath.sol
│   │   └── UQ112x112.sol
│   ├── test/
│   │   └── ERC20.sol
│   ├── UniswapV2ERC20.sol
│   ├── UniswapV2Factory.sol
│   └── UniswapV2Pair.sol
├── ignition/
├── scripts/
│   └── deploy.js
├── node_modules/
├── test/
│   ├── shared/
│   │   ├── fixtures.js
│   │   └── utilities.js
│   ├── UniswapV2ERC20.js
│   ├── UniswapV2Factory.js
│   └── UniswapV2Pair.js
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
├── hardhat.config.js
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

> ## Testing the Contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test the Contracts
```

You can run the provided test suite to ensure the contracts are working as expected. The tests cover various scenarios, including creating pairs, adding liquidity, and executing swaps.

To test it locally, you can run the following commands:

1. Spawn a local node for testing:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat node
    ```

>     This command will spawn a local substrate node along with the eth-rpc adapter. The node will be available at `ws://127.0.0.1:8000` and the eth-rpc adapter at `http://localhost:8545`.

Author: fixed in [9e33e35](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/541/commits/9e33e351531f81627c7e6ff0e41f4894128dec37)

2. In a new terminal, run the tests:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat test --network localNode
    ```

The result should look like this:

--8<-- "code/tutorials/smart-contracts/demo-aplications/deploying-uniswap-V2/testing-output.html"

## Deploying the Contracts

> After successfully testing the contracts, you can deploy them to the local node or the Polkadot Hub. The deployment script is located in the `scripts` directory and is named `deploy.js`. This script deploys the `Factory` and `Pair` contracts to the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully testing the contracts, you can deploy them to the local node or Polkadot Hub. The deployment script is located in the `scripts` directory and is named `deploy.js`. This script deploys the `Factory` and `Pair` contracts to the network.
```

To deploy the contracts, run the following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network localNode
```

This command deploys to your local blockchain for development and testing. If you want to deploy to the Polkadot Hub, you can use the following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network westendHub
```

> Commnad above deploys to the actual Polkadot TestNet. Requires WND test tokens, persists on the network, and operates under real network conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above deploys to the actual Polkadot TestNet. It requires WND test tokens, persists on the network, and operates under real network conditions.
```

---
title: Deploying Uniswap V2
description: Learn how to write a basic smart contract using just a text editor. This guide covers creating and preparing a contract for deployment on Polkadot Hub.
---

# Deploying Uniswap V2

## Introduction

> Decentralized exchanges (DEXs) are a cornerstone of the DeFi ecosystem, allowing for permissionless token swaps without intermediaries. Uniswap V2, with its Automated Market Maker (AMM) model, revolutionized DEXs by enabling liquidity provision for any ERC-20 token pair. This tutorial will guide you through how Uniswap V2 works, so you can take advantage of it in your projects deployed to the Polkadot Hub. By understanding these contracts, you'll gain hands-on experience with one of the most influential DeFi protocols and understand how it functions across blockchain ecosystems.

Reviewer 2: Add links to uniswap v2 docs

│   │   └── UQ112x112.sol
│   ├── test/
│   │   └── ERC20.sol
│   ├── UniswapV2ERC20.sol
│   ├── UniswapV2Factory.sol
│   └── UniswapV2Pair.sol
├── ignition/
├── scripts/
│   └── deploy.js
├── node_modules/
├── test/
│   ├── shared/
│   │   ├── fixtures.js
│   │   └── utilities.js
│   ├── UniswapV2ERC20.js
│   ├── UniswapV2Factory.js
│   └── UniswapV2Pair.js
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
├── hardhat.config.js
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

## Testing the Contracts

You can run the provided test suite to ensure the contracts are working as expected. The tests cover various scenarios, including creating pairs, adding liquidity, and executing swaps.

To test it locally, you can run the following commands:

1. Spawn a local node for testing:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat node
    ```

    This command will spawn a local substrate node along with the eth-rpc adapter. The node will be available at `ws://127.0.0.1:8000` and the eth-rpc adapter at `http://localhost:8545`.

2. In a new terminal, run the tests:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat test --network localNode
    ```

To test it on the Westend Hub, you can run the following command:

```bash
npx hardhat test --network westendHub

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think it makes sense to run the tests in a live network

The result should look like this:

--8<-- "code/tutorials/smart-contracts/demo-aplications/deploying-uniswap-V2/testing-output.html"

## Deploying the Contracts

After successfully testing the contracts, you can deploy them to the local node or the Polkadot Hub. The deployment script is located in the `scripts` directory and is named `deploy.js`. This script deploys the `Factory` and `Pair` contracts to the network.

> To deploy the contracts, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Explain the difference between running one command or the other

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network localNode
```

or

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network westendHub
```

The deployment script will output the addresses of the deployed contracts. Save these addresses, as you will need them to interact with the contracts. For example, the output should look like this:

--8<-- "code/tutorials/smart-contracts/demo-aplications/deploying-uniswap-V2/deployment-output.html"

## Conclusion

> This tutorial taught you how to deploy Uniswap V2 contracts to Polkadot Hub, create liquidity pools, and perform token swaps. This implementation brings the powerful AMM model to the Polkadot ecosystem, enabling decentralized trading of any ERC-20 token pair.

Reviewer 2: This is inaccurate as the guide does not explain how to create liquidity pools and perform token swaps. If that's intended, add a new section that describes how to interact with the protocol

By following this guide, you've gained practical experience with:

- Setting up a Hardhat project for deploying to Polkadot Hub
- Understanding the Uniswap V2 architecture
- Deploying and testing Uniswap V2 contracts
- Creating liquidity pools and executing swaps

> - Building a basic UI for interacting with your deployment

Reviewer 2: Same here, no lp, swaps or UI in this guide
